[docs] Alternatives for Expo Notifications (#34705)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/alternatives-for-expo-notifications.mdx

---
title: Alternatives for Expo Notifications

> description: Learn about alternative services for sending push notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about alternative push notification services for Expo Notifications.
```

Let's add the context int he description that the services listed are in context to Expo Notifications.

For server-side notification delivery, you have multiple SDK options. The Expo team maintains the [expo-server-sdk-node](https://github.com/expo/expo-server-sdk-node), and the community provides additional SDKs ([see the full list](https://docs.expo.dev/push-notifications/sending-notifications/#third-party-sdks)). Alternatively, you can send an [HTTP/2 request](https://docs.expo.dev/push-notifications/sending-notifications/#http2-api) directly to the Expo endpoint. This API does not require authentication, making it fast and easy to use.

**There is no cost** associated with sending notifications through the Expo push notification service.

Using Expo Notifications is optional. You can use methods from [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/), such as [`getDevicePushTokenAsync`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/#getdevicepushtokenasync), to retrieve the native push token and use it with other services.

## Limitations of Expo Notifications

> - **Dependency on Expo** — Your app relies on Expo's push notification service.
> - **Limited control** — Full customization, such as advanced background handling, may require direct FCM/APNs integration.
> - **Rate limits** — Expo limits push notifications to **600 notifications per second per project**. If you exceed this rate, subsequent requests will fail until the rate drops below the limit. To manage this effectively, implement request throttling (included in the [expo-server-sdk-node](https://github.com/expo/expo-server-sdk-node)) and add retry logic to your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dependency on Expo**: Your app relies on Expo's push notification service.
- **Limited control**: Full customization, such as advanced background handling, may require direct FCM/APNs integration.
- **Rate limits**: Expo limits push notifications to **600 notifications per second per project**. If you exceed this rate, subsequent requests will fail until the rate drops below the limit. To manage this effectively, implement request throttling (included in the [`expo-server-sdk-node`](https://github.com/expo/expo-server-sdk-node)) and add retry logic to your server.
```

Let's use `:` over the dash symbol.

<BoxLink
  title="OneSignal Expo SDK Setup"
  description="Learn how to integrate OneSignal in your Expo project."
  href="https://documentation.onesignal.com/docs/react-native-expo-sdk-setup"
/>

### Braze

[Braze](braze.com/) is a customer engagement platform that delivers personalized, cross-channel messaging through push notifications, in-app messaging, email, SMS, and web. They offer a [React Native SDK](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk) and an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main). Check out the [Expo example app](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/tree/main/example) for more details.

<BoxLink
  title="Braze Expo Setup"
  description="Learn how to integrate Braze in your Expo project."
  href="https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/platforms/react_native/sdk_integration"
/>

### Customer.io

[Customer.io](http://Customer.io) provides two main services:

> - **Journeys** - Set up campaigns and send messages, emails, and push notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Journeys**: Set up campaigns and send messages, emails, and push notifications.
```

> - **Data Pipelines** - Capture and forward data from your Expo app, website, or other sources to the right destinations in your stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data Pipelines**: Capture and forward data from your Expo app, website, or other sources to the right destinations in your stack.
```

They offer an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-expo-plugin) for seamless integration. Follow the guide below to get started.

<BoxLink
  title="Customer.io Expo Quick Start Guide"
  description="Learn how to integrate Customer.io in your Expo project."
  href="https://docs.customer.io/sdk/expo/quick-start-guide/"
/>

## Native Push Notifications

> In some cases, you may need to handle notifications natively for full customization. While this increases complexity, you can still use [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) to get the native push token and configure notifications separately for each platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, you may need to handle notifications natively for full customization. While this increases complexity, you can still use [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) to get the native push token and configure notifications separately for each platform.
```

Conciseness.

### APNs (Apple Push Notification Service)

> [Apple Push Notification Service (APNs)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting-up-a-remote-notification-server) is the native iOS service for push notifications. The tools above wrap APNs with useful abstractions. If you integrate APNs directly, you must set up a provider server and configure your app to handle notifications on the user's device. Learn more in [Apple’s official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting-up-a-remote-notification-server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apple Push Notification Service (APNs)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting-up-a-remote-notification-server) is the native iOS service for push notifications. The providers above wrap APNs with useful abstractions. If you integrate APNs directly, you must set up a provider server and configure your app to handle notifications on the user's device. Learn more in [Apple's official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting-up-a-remote-notification-server).
```

Let's avoid using curly quote(s).

> ### FCM (Firebase Cloud Messaging)

Reviewer: Let's move this section above APNs (considering the platform order guideline).

---
title: Alternatives for Expo Notifications
sidebar_title: Expo Notifications alternatives
description: Learn about alternative push notification services to Expo Notifications.
---

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

> Expo simplifies push notification implementation by abstracting much of the complexity involved in communicating with [Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) and [Apple Push Notification Service (APNs)](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/setting-up-a-remote-notification-server). With Expo, you can handle notifications for both Android and iOS the same way, saving development time on both the front end and back end.

Reviewer 2: One thing we need to make very clear is that while developing `expo-notifications`, we do not test it with any of these external providers.

We develop `expo-notifications` in tandem with our own push service (which uses FCM and APNs directly) and this tighter integration allows us to ship some advanced features cross-platform which normally are not cross-platform.

Simple push messages with title and body will work with any provider but advanced patterns may not. After all, some of these services have their own native and react native SDKs - e.g. https://documentation.onesignal.com/docs/react-native-sdk-setup

Using Expo Notifications is optional. You can use methods from [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/), such as [`getDevicePushTokenAsync`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/#getdevicepushtokenasync), to retrieve the native push token and use it with other services.

## Limitations of Expo Notifications

- **Dependency on Expo**: Your app relies on Expo's push notification service.
- **Limited control**: Full customization, such as advanced background handling, may require direct FCM/APNs integration.
- **Rate limits**: Expo limits push notifications to **600 notifications per second per project**. If you exceed this rate, subsequent requests will fail until the rate drops below the limit. To manage this effectively, implement request throttling (included in the [`expo-server-sdk-node`](https://github.com/expo/expo-server-sdk-node)) and add retry logic to your server.

## Alternative Push Notification Providers

If you need more control or additional features, consider using a third-party push notification provider. Below are some popular services that offer advanced features and integrations with Expo.

> ### OneSignal

Reviewer 3: For each of these, it would be good to offer some information that would help someone make the decision to investigate this further. Not advertising so much as it is highlighting what's important to our users. For instance, OneSignal supports AFAIK notification extensions and has client components to support that.

<BoxLink
  title="Braze Expo Setup"
  description="Learn how to integrate Braze in your Expo project."
  href="https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/platforms/react_native/sdk_integration"
/>

### Customer.io

[Customer.io](http://Customer.io) provides two main services:

- **Journeys**: Set up campaigns and send messages, emails, and push notifications.
- **Data Pipelines**: Capture and forward data from your Expo app, website, or other sources to the right destinations in your stack.

They offer an [Expo plugin](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-expo-plugin) for seamless integration. Follow the guide below to get started.

<BoxLink
  title="Customer.io Expo Quick Start Guide"
  description="Learn how to integrate Customer.io in your Expo project."
  href="https://docs.customer.io/sdk/expo/quick-start-guide/"
/>

## Native Push Notifications

Sometimes, you may need to handle notifications natively for full customization. While this increases complexity, you can still use [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/) to get the native push token and configure notifications separately for each platform.

### FCM (Firebase Cloud Messaging)

> [Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) is a free, cross-platform messaging service for reliable message delivery. You can use it to notify client apps of new data, send messages, or handle real-time communication. Learn more in [Google’s documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging).

Reviewer 2: it'd make sense to link to https://rnfirebase.io/messaging/usage from here

> ### APNs (Apple Push Notification Service)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### APNs (Apple Push Notification Service)
```
Strike this (see above). We'll restrict the individually listed options to cross-platform solutions (in the loose sense- direct FCM/APNS isn't entirely cross platform, but it is on the client side, and it's a common pattern that is well-supported in as much as we can)
